## Midterm Research Proposal
CLEN 6537: Form, Formula, Format  
Fall 2016, w/ Prof. Dennis Tenen  

!!! Due: Nov 18th  

The midterm research proposal articulates your plans for the final paper. It
should answer clearly the What, the Why, and the How of your project. A
well-scoped proposal will expand on several texts from our reading list and
bring them into a conversation with an archive of primary materials.

To these ends, I suggest your proposal contain a concise treatment of the
following (in any reasonable order):

*Asterisks indicate the required sections.

### What has prompted your interest in the topic?

The purpose of the first paragraph is to ease your audience into the field of
your research. A small case-study, a quotation, or an anecdote can be used to
create a "point-of-departure," which introduces the reader to the range of
questions that motivate your work.

### What kinds of questions will you be asking?*

What is your problematic?  What philosophical, literary, social, ideological,
or historical problems will your work engage? What kinds of questions do not
interest you? What categories of thought and critical assumptions involved?

### How do your questions fit into a broader intellectual tradition?*

What is the tradition of answering these types of questions?  Where do you
expect to continue or break with the tradition? Remember that you are not
writing in a vacuum. Enter into a dialog with a specific scholarly
conversation related your topic. This is your chance to review critical
literature on the subject.

### How will you answer your questions?*

What are your methods?  Close reading?  Distant reading?  Interviews?
Archival research?  Text analysis?  Be practical and specific here.

### Where will you look for your answers?*

Create a sense of your archive.  What kind of materials will you be looking
for (literary, legal, scientific)?  What period?  What language?  What medium?
What genre?  Where is it? How will you get to it and when? This could be as
simple as "Ulysses, by James Joyce,‚Äù the graphic novel collection at Butler
Library, or as complicated as "Comparative traditions of Medieval Slavonic
hagiography." What are the biases implicit in your archive or dataset? What
kind of things are included or excluded?

### What kind of answers do you anticipate?

What do you expect this material to tell you?  What form do you expect your
thesis to take?  How might you structure your writing?  What possible problems
(theoretical, practical, or otherwise) could stand in the way of your
analysis?

### Who are your academic models?*

Find and mention several specific articles in your or a related field that you
can **emulate** for voice, style, methodology, or approach. Explain what
inspires you in the piece and what you hope to apply to your writing.

### Formally, what kind of a paper do you hope to produce?*

Pick a **specific academic publication** that publishes work of the sort that
your are proposing. Consult and mention their submission guidelines: citation
style, maximum length, and any other relevant considerations particular to the
journal.

### A plan of action*

Identify any gaps you have. Describe work completed (if any). Come up with a
reasonable timeline. Suggest per-week, per-month, per-semester goals and
milestones.
